I do think public data should be updated in time to blur certain specific information, with regulations and the help of professionals to ensure that the person who conducted crime is apologetic and shows resipiscence, and his past crime didn’t result in any serious consequence, to protect people’s right to be forgotten. However, I think that in a time like now when the Internet is everywhere in our life and has to a large extent connect the whole world together, it is extremely difficult and almost impossible to protect the right to be forgotten perfectly. It is indeed a good thing that there are certain online news sites like Cleveland.com who are aware of and had taken actions towards the violation of the right to be forgotten of certain people. However, I doubt the feasibility of imposing such requirements on every online news sites worldwide. Even if there are laws and regulations, the standards are still likely to be very blurry. After all, there is not only the pursuit of the freedom of speech, but also people’s various opinions. While one might think the person who did crimes has paid their debt, the other may disagree and consider this person deserves to be known as an ex-criminal both as a punishment and also as a warning for future employers. It’s hard to ask for an objective call from either the news sites or the public. Take the case of the director James Gunn as an example, he was boycotted online and fired for his tweets deleted several years ago. Even though he didn’t even commit any crime, and his tweets were also really old, the opinions on whether his “deleted tweets” should be forgotten of the public still differ. In addition, regional regulations can also be powerless in face of global network. Even if the person can’t be searched on Google, it doesn’t mean he can’t be searched on Baidu. Other similar dilemma I can think of is doxing. While doxing can be used as a means to intimidate people to be responsible for what they say on the Internet, it also leads to the act of online violence and the suppression of free speech. However, that being said, it’s doesn’t mean that websites like Cleveland and the Europe’s fight for the “right to be forgotten” is in vain. Maybe, if enough force joins the path, it will be harder and harder to search and judge people with their past for their whole life as the time goes by, like in the old days.

The benefits of a system like ClearView is indeed quite remarkable. If it couldn’t help solve crimes so efficient there wouldn’t be such a large amount of use of it by the legal system both in the US and in China. It’s obviously that the large dataset and facial recognition algorithm can help identify the criminals very efficiently and solve case that would otherwise be unsolvable. However, as the podcast mentions, the result can sometimes lead to racial judgements which could lead to serious outcome such as misidentifying criminals. What’s more, the risk of such a system doesn’t end within the legal system. So long as the system and the technology to achieve such facial recognition exist, there will always be the risk of individual abuse of the system. Being deprived of privacy by an organized government legal system is one thing, (not saying that it’s not a serious matter that could be used for for example suppressing one’s freedom to voice political opinion freely), but losing privacy as an individual by other individual is something even more frightening and disturbing. It could very likely lead to the loss of personal wealth and even endanger one’s life. Even though the CEO of the ClearView is saying that they will only sell the technology to the government rather than the CEO, I doubt that they will be able to resist the temptation of the commercial profits. The government need to take the initiative to do more research about the technology and the company behind it to set up rules to restrict the access to the technology.
